---
layout: misc
title: "HTML5 Myths"
author: "Sylvain White"
categories: subCategory
tags: [architecture]
# image: city-2.jpg
---
<br/>

## HTML5 Myths and misconceptions

Based on 'HTML5 Myths and misconceptions' by Steve Hansen, SD Times, January 2014
[[web](https://sdtimes.com/html5/html5-myths-and-misconceptions/){:target="_blank"}] 
Here are the myths:

1. HTML5 is one big thing

    HTML5 is not one big thing. Rather, it’s a collection of features. Together, that collection of new features is known as “HTML5.”
2. You must convert your existing Web apps to HTML5

    HTML5 is the latest iteration of HTML. There’s no need to replace your current applications. You may add HTML5 features to your existing Web applications without worrying about any conversion process.

3. HTML5 makes Web apps look native across all devices

    HTML5 provides some nice features for use in mobile Web applications. But it’s in no way responsible for applications adapting to the user’s device. A Web application built with HTML5 features will look no different than an HTML 4 application, and will certainly not automatically appear native across all devices and screens.

4. HTML5 automatically delivers offline access

    No. Sure, “HTML5 application” does not magically provide offline features. Building an application that still functions offline requires a cache manifest file and a good amount of configuration.

5. HTML5 app = Mobile Web app.

    The term “HTML5 app” has become a catchall phrase for mobile Web apps. In the last year, I’ve see countless articles focused on the “HTML5 vs. native app” debate.Despite what you might hear on the Internet, HTML5 is not synonymous with mobile Web apps.

What is commonly referred to as an “HTML5 app” is really a combination of HTML, CSS and JavaScript.